CAD is stored in database. It is data.

We get data from Loan File or Captured Applications Details (or we also call it as CAD) which consists of system approved and underwriter approved applications.
System approved application means the loan applications which the system has approved by applying ML algorithms
in the backend and underwriter approved application means the loan application which has been declined by system but approved by underwriter.

I start from Loan file which is called CAD, which we get regularly through various channel partners/sales channel.
Then we have branch information file, Bureau information file, which consists of MDI, TDI, FICO score etc.
we have employment information file, education information file which we need to combine or merge to get the data model which is called Account Origination File.
From the account origination file, we design multiple
KPI metrices such as Total Application recieved, Requested Amount, Approved Application, Approved Amount, Booked Application, Booked Amount, 
Cancelled Application and Amount, and Lastly, Declined Application and amount.
This KPI metrices are prepared at each portfolio level such as Mortgage, Personal Loan, Credit Card, Line of Credit.
Here, my role is to build origination reports based on the designed KPI metrics.

Now, only the data which are approved for the loan will go for Account Performance Tracking wherein we track the performace of accounts by making delinquency buckets namely X,X+1... 
to X+5 days to CO(Charged Off). These are basically days past due date. Where X refers to 0-30 days to 180 days.
This is a crucial part as we have to make proper collection and recovery strategy based on this.
And, our main objective is to increase the cured-rate and improved-rate and reduce the roll-rate to achieve the BCR,
which stands for Balance Control Ratio, which is equal to GLPA/BLPA.
Here, cured-rate refers to the person belonging to any of the deliquency bucket is moved to the CURRENT status.
Improved rate refers to the accounts which are in higher delinquency bucket now have moved to lower delinquency bucket.
For example, an account which is in X+2 delinquency bucket has moved to X+1 delinquency bucket by paying the current installment.
Roll-rate refers to the account which moves from lower-deliquency-bucket to higher-delinquency-bucket by not paying the previous and current installment/s.
Here, we have achieve ideal BCR. Good BCR for mortgage ranges from 2 to 2.5. In case of credit-cards, a good BCR range from 3.5 to 4. Speaking in general terms, 
a BCR of more than 1 is considered as good. We prepare our Performance Report showing all these measures. As we limited number of caller/contacting team,
So, we also need to segment the customer's accounts which are on Higher-risk segment. Here, we categorize our customers based on risk factor as High-risk customers,
Medium-risk customers and Low-risk customers so that the Collection Strategy can be prioritized for the accounts which are on the higher side of the risk.

Q. Cross-question: What all you show in your Performance Report?
Ans: In Performance Report, we show by portfolio-wise number of Customer Base, Delinquent Account and Balance,
 Non-Delinquent Account and balance, Good Loan and Bad Loan per account, BCR, 
Delinquent Rate and Non-Delinquent Rate in terms of accounts and balance,
 all the delinquency-bucket from X to CO(Charged Off) in terms of number of accounts and percentage, 
current balance and delinquent balance in terms of amount and percentage etc. 

Q. Cross question: How do you categorize/segment customers based on risk factor?
Ans: We look for inputs such as FICO score, MDI, TDI. In FICO score, if the customer is having score between 300 to 500, 
then we keep that customer in 'Higher-Risk-Category'. 550-700 under 'Medium-Risk' and above 700,
we keep that customer/account at Lower Risk.
 These inputs are provided by our LOSS FORECASTING team.

This data or you can say report is then sent to Collection team.
 The collection team starts targetting the accounts which are at Higher Risk Category followed by Mid-Risk and Low-Risk category.

Q. What is the role of calling team in your Organization?
Ans: The calling team now starts targetting and calling the accountholders which are at Higher-Risk category.
How many times they called?
 Who received the call- The accountholder or someone else? Reason for not paying the dues eg.
current financial condition or sickness. Customer's willingness to pay is also to be noted here.

The data collected from our calling team is used by our LOSS FORECASTING TEAM to calculate PROBABILITY OF DEFAULT (PD),
 EXPOSURE AT DEFAULT(EAD),
 LOSS GIVEN DEFAULT(LGD) etc. I used to observe these things during cross-functional activity. 
The data of our Loss Forecasting Team is used further to maintain BASEL norms such as Risk Weightage Asset(RWA),
 CRR, SLR etc.
 I am not part of this activity but I have bird's-eye knowledge as I was engaged in cross-functional activity. 

Q. What is my role in Account Recovery process?
Ans: Here, we have 3 teams working on recovery process-
1. Internal Team- which contact those accountsholders that have become Charged Off after 180 days for next 6 months
 i.e., the Internal Team will contact for first 6 months.
2. Primary team- which contact those accountholders from 7 months to 24 months.
3. Secondary team/ Third-Party team- which contact and try to recover the outstanding dues from
 accountholders after 24 months.

Our role in recovery phase is to analyze the PAY RATE (Suppose out of 100 accounts, 
60 have paid partially or wholly, then my pay rate is 60%),
RECOVERY RATE(Suppose an amount of 1 million CAD is in Charged off,
but we manage to recover only 300,000 CAD, then my reocovery rate would be 30%). 

Here, our role is to analyze the performance of Internal Team which comprises of different agents and companies.
How good they are to achieve pay rate and recovery rate.
We need to present to business that which companies/agents are performing well and which are not performing well.

We also need to do adhoc analysis (for eg. changing age-bucket) ocassionally to do root-cause analysis,
financial distress analysis where we need to identify macro-economic scenario and we need to depend 
on the other sources. Such data is with LOSS FORECASTING TEAM.
LFT will provide us the Macro-economic data which consists of GDP of the country,
what is the industrial movement, inflation rate etc.
These data are not readily available.
For this data, we need to request our Manager, Client. It is a time-taking process.
Hence, in order to prepare adhoc reports in a time-bound manner is challenging.

Q. How much time is spent by you?
Ans: 50% of my time is in regular reporting. 30% time goes to adhoc analysis. 20% is cross-functional.

 
 